Red-black BSTs

Encoding 3-nodes. The basic idea behind red-black BSTs is to encode 2-3 trees by starting with standard BSTs (which are
made up of 2-nodes) and adding extra information to encode 3-nodes. We think of the links as being of two different
types: red links, which bind together two 2-nodes to represent 3-nodes, and black links, which bind together the 2-3
tree.
Specifically, we represent 3-nodes as two 2-nodes connected by a single red link that leans left (one of the 2-nodes is
the left child of the other). One advantage of using such a representation is that it allows us to use our get() code
for standard BST search without modification. Given any 2-3 tree, we can immediately derive a corresponding BST, just
by  converting  each node as specified. We refer to BSTs that represent 2-3 trees in this way as red-black BSTs.

An equivalent definition. Another way to proceed is to define red-black BSTs as BSTs having red and black links and
satisfying the following three restrictions:
- Red links lean left.
- No node has two red links connected to it.
- The tree has perfect black balance: every path from the root to a null link has the same number of black links.

A 1-1 correspondence. If we draw the red links horizontally in a red-black BST, all of the null links are the same
distance from the root, and if we then collapse together the nodes connected by red links, the result is a 2-3 trees.
Conversely， if we draw 3-nodes in 2-3 tree as two 2-nodes connected by a red link that leans left, then no node has two
red links connected to it, and the tree has perfect black balance, since  the black links correspond to the 2-3 tree
link, which are perfectly balanced by definition. Whichever way we choose to define them, red-black BSTs are both BSTs
and 2-3 trees. Thus, if we can implement the 2-3 tree insertion algorithm by maintaining the 1-1 correspondence, then we
get the best of both worlds: the simple and efficient search method from standard BSTs and the efficient insertion-balancing
method from 2-3 trees.

Color representation. For convenience, since each node is pointed to by precisely on link (from its parent), we encode
the color of links in nodes, by adding a boolean instance variable color to our Node data type, which is true if the
link from the parent is red and false if tit is black. By convention, null links are black. For clarity in our code, we
define constants RED and BLACK for use in setting and testing this variable. We use a private method isRed() to test the
color of node's link to its parent. When we refer to the color of the node,  we are referring to the color of the link
pointing to it, and vice versa.

Rotations. The implementation that we will consider might allow right-leaning red links or two red links in a row during
an operation, but it always corrects these conditions before completion, through judicious use of an operation called
rotation that switches the orientation of red links. First, suppose that we have a right-leaning red link that needs to
be rotated to lean to the left. This operation is called a left rotation. We organize the computation as a method that
takes a link to a red-black BST as argument and, assuming that link to be a Node h whose right link is red, makes the
necessary adjustments and returns a link to a node that is the root of a red-black BST for the same set of keys whose
left link is red. If you check each of the lines of code against the before/after drawing in the diagram, you will find
this operation is easy to understand: we are switching from having the smaller of the two keys at the root to having the
larger of the two keys at the root. Implementing a right rotation that converts a left-leaning red link to a right-leaning
one amounts to the same code, with left and right interchanged.

Resetting the link in the parent after a rotation. Whether left or right, every rotation leaves us with a link. We always
use the link returned by rotateLeft() or rotateRight() to reset the appropriate link in the parent(or the root of the
tree). That may be a right or a left link, but we can always use it to reset the link in the parent. This link may be
red or black --- both rotateLeft() and rotateRight() preserve it's color by setting x.color to h.color. This might allow
two red link in a row to occur within the tree, but our algorithms will also use rotation to correct this condition when
it arises. For example, the code
h = rotateLeft(h);
rotates left a right-leaning red link that is to the right of node h, setting h to point to the root of the resulting sub-
tree (which contains all the same nodes as the subtree pointed to by h before the rotation, but a different root). The
ease of writing this type of code is the primary reason we use recursive implementations of BST methods, as it make doing
rotations an easy supplement to normal insertion, as you will see.

Proposition G. The height of a red-black BST with N nodes is no more than 2lgN

Proposition H. The average length of a path from the root to a node in red-black BST with N nodes is ~1.00logN

Proposition I. In a red-black BST, the following operations take logarithmic time in the worst case: search,insertion,
finding the minimum, finding the maximum, floor, ceiling, rank, select, delete the minimum, delete the maximum, delete,
and range count.